Our shared agreement of how Foot Nerds interact with each other in dialogue

Rules of engagement for discource
                                   
Foot nerds Create It and Maintain It

Our Agreement to one another and the world around us

It’s our intention to create and maintain productive spaces for intellectual disagreement and generative conversations

We aspire to become a tribe of individuals who challenge one another’s perspectives and trust in knowing each one will be heard and respected

We intend to maintain the safe environment for discourse and that environment is to be underlined by love and understanding

We’re here to learn from each other and contribute our varied experiences and backgrounds to the collective knowledge base

In doing so, we create diversity. Why is diversity important? Because a wide variety of perspectives breeds immunity from bias

The FNP has created an environment where fear is eliminated and every Nerd is safe to speak what he/she believes to be true without the danger of repercussions

An antidote to fear culture is the creation of a safe environment for discourse

What this means for you:

In the FNP, each nerd agrees to participate in creating a safe environment for exchanges in daily conversation, in discourse of any kind and intellectual debate

The FNP zoom platform will act as the forum where we can have discussions on controversial topics

When topics come up and nerds want to have a debate/discussion, a temporary channel will be created on Slack and the discourse will be held there

If a zoom call is appropriate, nerds can propose and schedule discussions that are open for all tribe members to participate in

For each discussion, a mediator will be selected to guide the conversation and the discussion covenant will be enforced objectively by every participant involved

Covenant = Agreement

All nerds agree that conversations will be conducted with respect, will be constructive in nature and that each person involved is participating in good faith

Good faith can be defined as: 
Contributing to the discussion honestly and fairly and agreeing to follow the guidelines for creating an environment of safety and trust

Everyone who agrees to the covenant is also an arbiter to ensure that the covenant is respected and enforced

It protects everyone within the space. The covenant will be an evolving document but here is the current version:

Foot Nerd Dialogue Covenant (last edited 1.25.2022)

-------> Rules of engagement:

We remain open minded and enter conversations with a willingness to change our minds if the information presented is compelling.

1. We approach conversations as opportunities to learn, not simply to defend your position 

2. We are clear on the idea/perspective you are presenting, let the other person be heard, 
avoid interrupting during a train of thought, and allow for equal opportunity to speak

3. We engage in a conversation with good faith: the mutual desire to understand the opposing perspective and to collaboratively achieve a synergy 
between viewpoints to resolve differences and discover the most valid perspective based on well reasoned arguments

4. We avoid presenting non-testable assertions. All arguments must be falsifiable

5. We understand the difference between disagreement (not agreeing with someone's idea) and dislike (showing contempt for the person with the idea)

6. We avoid the use of logical fallacies
 
7. We are compassionate with ourselves and one another. We’re all on the same human team
